Welcome back in previously we saw how we can store information to local storage pick that backed up
and make use of it within our Javascript.
So one of the things that you might have noticed is that every time we need to have a name and then
one value.
So if we've got to store a lot of information this can get fairly long.
We need to access a bunch of names.
We can only get that one string value back.
And this is one of the limitations to local storage and the same thing for cookies as well.
So this is one of the real pain points when you're working with these.
So there is actually a better way to do this and a solution for this and this is that using Jason or
javascript object notation.
So we are going to look at this in more detail coming up in the next lesson or the next section as we
look at using Jaison and retrieving Jaison data in more detail.
But for now we're just going to use a javascript object and we're going to show you how you can string
a file it into a string and then also pull that back and parse it back in to a usable object format.
So let's go ahead and set this up so variable and let's set up an object so we know that for objects
with javascript objects.
And Jason's actually very similar to javascript objects the formats actually are identical to javascript
objects where you need to have key and then you have a values of these paired values.
So we saw this before when we might have something like a message.
So this is the key.
And then the value associated with it is going to be hello world.
So we could do this we could do it within this format and we know with javascript objects we don't actually
need to quote around the key but in Jaison you actually do.
So that's the really the big difference between Jaison and javascript object.
So I want to use a JS saw on format so I have a message.
And then also I can comma separated out and add in multiple values so I can have a count as well and
then separate it with the colon and we can use strings or we can use numbers were booleans as well.
So let's do the count and then next let's do secret.
So we'll pass over a secret message as well.
So and the secret is going to be Javascript of course.
So there we go.
So we've got some information that we're passing into our object and let's console log.
This we're going to and then what I'll do is we're going to turn it into a string of fire value and
then I'm going to store it into local storage and then I'm going to pick that up suddenly going to need
that one key value in order to store this information.
So let's go back and refresh it.
So we see that this function is still working we still got this information stored within our javascript
and now we set up our javascript object or J saw an object looks the same and we've got counter-message
and secret so we're passing in some values.
So let's take this to a next step and we're going to string a flat So we're going to do the object and
we're going to call it my string.
And this is a builtin method in javascript so we can do a J so on we see we've got the two options.
So string of phi convert the Jason value to a string and then parse actually does the opposite.
So it pulls out of a string and turns it back into an object.
So let me show you the difference here and we'll do my string and then also just to save some time.
Let's do my hubby G too.
So we're going to call it might object to.
And we're going to use Jason again.
So the Jasen method and we're going to parse back the value and notice that I'm going to use the value
of my string and then we'll Konsole log that information out.
So basically this is going to illustrate how we can send a bunch of information as one string value
and then pull that back.
And this is perfect for local storage because it saves you the trouble of creating a bunch of these
local storage items and storing them.
So let's try that.
So we won't actually see anything different on our page but we will see something different in here.
So we see that at first.
So this is just a regular string so notice that we can't open it up we can't select.
This is just a string.
So this is Jason as a string and that's it.
So we can't do anything more with it.
But when we pull that string and we parse it back into is Jason parce we actually have access to it
just as we did before.
And that means that we can make use of it within our code.
So this is perfect for passing it in as into our local storage.
So what I want you to do now is pass your object as a string into your local storage so set it up as
an item in the local storage and you can call it whatever you want is I'm going to call it.
And he asks for a message and then output.
All of this information.
So what I want you to do is to pass that in as an item into your browser.
Local storage and then pull that back out and output all of these values within your HVM else.
So go ahead and try that and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So P.N. an opportunity to try that out.
And now let me show you the solution for this.
So the solution for this is that we can take the value and we can send it to local storage.
So let me just use what we have here before and I'm going to call it MVS and because this is a string
value I can send it and I can save it into my Emmies and the next thing that I need to do is I'm going
to get rid of this and I can pick that up from my stored value and I can make use of it.
So let's let's check to see if the US is there and if it is then what I want to do is I want to output
that information.
So this is where I need to parse that value so I can get rid of the console logs here.
So let's use the same variable.
So we know that MVS is a string value and we can return it back and parse it in as a J song object.
And now we should have access to all of that wonderful information that's available within there as
an object for a month.
So let's first try message.
So basically this should output message and
let's say we're going to store it that one time and if we want to make updates to it we can update it
as well.
So basically what's going to happen here within this condition is that it's going to check to see if
local storage has a value for mass and if it does it's going to put that value parse it take that string
value turn it back into a sun object or javascript object.
And then we're just going to simply output that first value in the object.
And if mass doesn't exist then it's going to set that value from the string over here.
So let's go ahead and save this and try this and refreshed.
So we see that first time we're not actually getting any message because this is the first time first
round where we're actually setting the value.
Next let's refresh and we see that we're getting.
Hello world.
So that value is coming from the my object and it's putting into the output there.
And then we can finish this off.
But putting the rest of those values.
So this is going to be this is actually fairly straightforward because now that we've got it within
that object format we can pull back the value for message
and we can pull back the value of count
and we can also pull back the last value for secret so we can get that secret message out and a whole
lot more.
So the other thing that we can do as well is we can't increment this and next we can set or object
and let's set that object value and let's now let's set the message as updated and let's set the value
of count as whatever we've got within this variable and javascript to and then next we need to just
store that value.
So we can actually get rid of the else because we're always going to be storing that value no matter
what afterwards.
So let's refresh.
So now whenever we refresh
and we should update this to be numeric as well so let's do number.
So let's convert it to a number and then we're going to increment it by one
and we can set the value like this.
So this one this one is a little bit longer here but it's basically the same thing that we had to do
previously where we can set the values.
And one last thing that I need to do is I need to string a file that objects.
That's the last thing that I wasn't doing.
So now when we refresh it we see that the update is working so everything is working as before but we've
simplified it and we can actually pass in a whole lot more information.
So go ahead and try this out for yourself and try creating even a longer object of information that
you're passing.
Parse it in string a Fiat.
So remember when you're parsing but passing it into your local storage it needs to be a string.
So this is where you can string ify that value.
And then when you're picking it up you can parse it back to using js on Parse.
So do try that for yourself and create a longer message within your web application.